1v1 shmup
Turn-based
    One player is always shooting while the other casts
    Swap role each turn
        Chance for interaction while switching?
            Rock Paper Scissors clash mechanic
                Up / Down / Center on joystick for stance, determines rock/paper/scissors
                Left / Right / Center on joystick for lane, clash occurs if both players pick the same lane
                Bounce back and redo RPS on draw
                Casting player gets turn extension on win
                    Shorter than standard turn
                Shooting player gets bonus damage on win
                    Smash opponent to lower half of screen
                    Roughly 1 turn of damage?
            Left / Right / Center path choice when switching
                1/3 chance of clash
            Certain situations in which both players switch to the same mode?
                Card effect?
                Match event?
                    Draw decider?
Card-based
    Build deck before each match
        Casting cards
        Shooting cards
        16-20 cards per deck
        5-8 cards per hand
        Each card has a cost
        Separate cost limits for deck and hand
        Separate hands for shooting and casting, or shared? Mode switch?
    Redraw when hand is depleted, or every 3-or-so rounds? Mode switch?
        Delays next turn
        Done on a timer to prevent abuse
    All cards available from the start in VS mode
    Cards are separated by faction and character
        Antivirus AI programs
            'Ruby'
        Firewall AI programs
            'Endian'
                Hot-blooded
            'Wing'
                Little starfighter
                Created from old low-poly game data
        Admin_Sys
            Sysadmin users
            'Ezra'
                Sysadmin
                Owns and runs the Danmaku Arcana server
                    Hobby project with Cherry when they're not working with the Fight Squad
                    "I told you building your own distro for this was a bad idea"
                        "Nah, building my own distro means I can do THIS"
                The Jeff Gerstmann-esque walking encyclopedia of Danmaku games
                    Casual genre omniscience
                    Not necessarily godly at playing them
                Full sysadmin permissions
                    Does she have the ability to nuke the whole system with rm -rf /?
                        Compromised by the hackers as a plot point?
                            Could have her threaten to do it and have the hackers downgrade her account
                                Ultimately for the good because the AIs are 'alive'
                        Unwilling due to the presence of sapient AIs?
                            Paints her as a more sympathetic character than a system nuke
                            Avoids nerfing her admin powers
                                Good excuse for cool abilities
                Not a pro sysadmin in terms of experience, but competent enough to wrangle a linux system
            'Cherry'
                Moderator
                Danmaku enthusiast
                    Has finished all of the Touhou (or in-universe alternative) games on the highest difficulty
                        "Touhou XXVI was innovative but brutal"
                        "Call me old fashioned but 8 is still the best"
                    Owns 2+ arcade sticks
                        "A lot of people prefer seimutsu for these games but sanwa is my favourite"
                Doesn't have as many elevated server permissions as Ezra
                    Plot device for run-ins with hackers and rogue AIs
                Casual hobbyist programmer
                    Still learning basic C++, no framework/engine knowledge
        Hackers
            InfoSec users
            'Tycho'
    Cards are avatar modules
        "Oh, like a subroutine?"
            "No, they're considerably more complex than subroutines. Think of them as plugins."
    Different game modes for different restrictions
        Character-locked
            Characters can only use their decks
        Faction-locked
            Characters can only use cards from their faction
        Free for all
            Characters can use any cards
    Separate card types for shoot and cast modes
        Cast
            Bullet patterns
                Forms the basis of a casting turn
                Has a startup time, can be stopped during startup if the shooting player can deal enough damage
                Can't move during startup
                Flashes name and pattern visualization on screen when activated
            Direct attacks
                Multi-use attacks to augment bullet patterns
            Defensive technqiues
                Bubble shield
                    Gradius-style radial shield with limited health
                Physical shield
                    Gradius-style frontal shield with limited health
                Shadow clone
                    Spawns an autonomous clone and freezes life bar for a duration
                    Any damage to clone is null, damage to caster is accumulated and applied when card times out
            Trick techniques
                Pull a swerve on your opponent
                Blink
                    All bullets are invisible for the next second w/obvious windup
                Delta Zero
                    Pause bullets temporarily
                Redux
                    Rewind bullet pattern
                Feint
                    Scripted dash to opponent's front
                    Set duration in which any damage received will trigger a grab counter
                    Recovery period with no control to reward opponent with free damage on hard read
                Constrict
                    Temporarily shrink play area
                Forfeit
                    Give up the remainder of your turn and initiate a clash with no countdown
                    High risk / high reward
                    Still has a readable startup
                    Lock n seconds before the round ends to prevent abuse
                        Players shouldn't be able to have a full turn and then instaclash too
            Movement styles
                Standard movement
                    Eight-way control
                    Always vulnerable
                Point-to-point dash
                    Position target with movement controls
                    Release button to dash
                    Invincible during dash
                    Cooldown period to prevent abuse
        Shoot
            Movement styles
                Like Touhou player movement
            Shot types
                Normal
                    Equip-time cost
                    Fire rate, damage, size and homing parameters
                Counter
                    Equip time cost
                    Successive hits fill a bar
                    Bar drains over time
                    When bar is maxed, ends the opponent's turn and forces a single lane clash
                    Runtime cost- drains more of user's power with each shot, returns power over time
        Melee
            Equip time cost
            Runtime cost- drains power with each swing, returns all at once when combo ends or is cancelled by another move
            Grabs?
                Tech by activating a grab card of your own within a time window?
                    Adds an element of card counter-picking, encourages equipping a grab
                        Potential to wreck balance if certain characters lack grabs
        Modifier
            Augment existing abilities with extra effects
            Clash
                Change how clash works
                Equip-time cost
                Runtime cost to activate?
                Thousand fists
                    Auto triggers on clash win
                    Lower base damage
                    Mash for bonus damage
                    Overall higher damage potential than standard clash
                    ORAORAORAORAORA
                Overpower
                    Auto triggers on clash draw
                    Instead of re-clashing, go into a weapon-locked mash-off, winner is the first to fill a bar
                Clash Parry
                    Triggers on clash loss, small window after result is decided
                    Locks out until the next round if triggered prematurely
                    Multi-round recharge time to prevent abuse?
                    Shooter: Parry clash strike to negate damage
                    Caster: Parry shooter's attack and force a re-clash
Life bar-based
    Take a chunk of damage if hit by bullet pattern
    Chip damage if hit by shooting
    Need to balance so neither style is inferior
Card limits
    Passive cards limited by equip-time cost
        Cannot exceed power limit when building hand
        Leftover power is made available for runtime use
        Includes shot types, cast movement types, etc.
    Active cards are limited by runtime cost
        Cannot cast if using the card would push you above power limit
        Active cards consume power based on a cooldown independent of bullet pattern duration
        Includes shot supers, cast patterns, etc.

Game flow
    Login
    RPS to pick side, no countdown
    Battle phase
    RPS to switch side w/countdown
    Return to battle phase
    When player lifebar is reduced to 0, game over

Single-player content
    Campaign
        Very blue sky / out of scope idea
        Card collecting RPG
        Pokemon-esque, but with deck building instead of leveling up
        VS characters are present in-universe, but you play as your own character

    Training Mode
        Bullet pattern visualization
        Star-based scoring system that rewards perfect clears

    Arcana Archive
        More feasible idea
        "Records of climactic battles from the distant past"
        Scripted self-contained 'mission mode' fights chosen from a menu
            Fixed character, deck and hands
            Tells a short story
            Rounds synchronized with music
            (ex. Tsuki Made Todoke, Fushi no Kemuri from Touhou 8 OST - https://youtu.be/fHrk_6YEtpI?list=PL67F11CEA03E7FE5F)

Ideas
    Character idea
        Four set casting movement cards that move you to a fixed point on your half of the screen
        Moving between points triggers a different attack based on your position and location
        3 options per position * 4 positions = 12 attack permutations
        Independent cooldowns to limit the player's options and encourage interesting strategies

    Concept framing
        First run / tutorial presents the Danmaku Arcana as a big spellbook, fancy paper page turning animations etc.
        Have the game glitch out / de-rez into a more digital aesthetic upon tutorial completion
            In-game call-to-action / protagonist introduction?
                On-screen text box, "What the-?"
                Interface disintegrates into new vector line tron look
                "Why is it falling back to the old interface? I meant to clear that out ages ago"
        In reality, the Danmaku Arcana is a server and you're accessing it via terminal
            Framing should make sense, don't want to fall into the 'because future' hole
                Ex: .hack://G.U. is set in an online game capable of causing real-world network crises and putting players in comas
                Why? An online game is a self-contained program running on a set of servers
                The servers could be compromised and repurposed as a botnet, that's believable
                The comas on the other hand are unexplained, more or less hand-waved as future internet magic
                In that case, the concept is too lofty for the framing
            What sort of server? Online game? Archive of some sort?
                Passion project run by fans of the danmaku shooter genre? Game preservation, etc.
                    People can log in and play old danmaku games
                        Like the internet archive but for a game genre
                        Public domain
                        Good excuse for some retro-styled bonus content
                    Something causes the data/programs to develop into sapient AIs
                        Aware enough to act like people, but not enough to know they're part of a simulation
                            Possible plot device?
                                Admin_Sys discovers AIs, introduces a 'Prime Directive' as a safety measure
                                    AIs are not allowed to know that they're in a simulation
                                    They appear sapient and can affect the system, safer not to risk destabilizing them
                                    The truth inevitably gets out and plot ensues
                    Real-world users log in with avatars
                        Normal players
                        Admins / Moderators
                        Hackers
                            Small-time
                                Lulz hackers
                                Defacing UI
                                Altering existing scenarios
                                    Making games unwinnable with ridiculous enemy/bullet patterns
                                        Kaizo
                                Uploading their own games as a form of advertising
                                    Mostly crap
                                    One or two genuinely good entries despite the methodology
                                Mining cryptocurrency and eating performance
                                    Existing scenarios start 'lagging'
                                        Player movement is smooth, but bullets run at a much-reduced tick rate with high delta time
                            Big-time
                                Cause of the simulation
                                Repurposing existing codebase to develop advanced AI
                                    Motivations? Why are they trying to create artificial people?
                                        'Blacksite' Military development?
                                            Contrived and predictable
                                        Skilled hacker collective
                                            Less /el/, more Entropy
                                            Focused, with purpose
                                            More interesting than military / government shenanigans
                                            Using the Danmaku Arcana server as a development sandbox
                                                Trying to create a next-generation computing environment
                                                    ICE - Immersive Computing Environment?
                                                        Wanting to make TRON a reality
                                                        Porting stuff like git into the 3D simulation world
                                                        Users fly around
                                                            Can teleport to cover large distances
                                                                Blink card
                                                                Convenience feature, helps justify feasability
                                                    AI developer/s on the team
                                                    Deletes old traditional environment after Admin_Sys users get their accounts
                                                        Plot contrivance to ensure all system tasks are done 'in-game'
                                                            Opens up possibilities for sysadmin gameplay scenarios
                                                            Sidesteps "why not just use the terminal?"
                    Log in with VR/AR as it's the new standard in future computing
                        Believable contrivance for operator sensory presence in game world
                        Archived games range from old 2D to hypothetical future 3D and VR/AR danmaku
                            In-world setting is 3D
                                Explained via existing code being repurposed to create the simulation
                            Callback to shmup 3D prototype?
                    Real-world users are NOT at risk
                        However, their machines, identity, data, etc. are
                            Information society
            Lean into 'going outside the boundaries' concept
                Explored in .hack// games
                    Twilight Bracelet and 8 Phases / Morganna System / Aura in original quadrillogy
                    Azure Kite, Epitaphs, Xth form, second half of .hack//G.U. Vol 3
                    Doesn't take it far enough, needs to be a narrative cornerstone
    Arcana Hacked
        In-game event
        Server is compromised by a hacker and the UI defaced
            'Dankmaku Arcana', weed jokes
            Small-time hack, not system-threatening
            Need to log in and fix it