Feedback
========
Caster badly needs more stuff to do after pattern is activated
    Supplementary attacks, patterns with multiple uses, patterns that don't last the whole game
    Multiple functions per card?
        Tap for standard version
        Hold for more expensive EX version
        May be overcomplicating things considering that there are already 8 slots
Feels bad having to move through the shooting player's bullet stream while dodging as casting player
    Gameplay is balanced for it, but it feels bad
    Is having the caster take chip damage the right choice?
        Yes, but perhaps not exclusively
            Scrapping chip in favor of burst-only would take away from the danmaku boss fight feel
    Accentuated by the lack of non-pattern tools for caster and general lack of tools for shooter
Better communication of player roles
    Show 'casting' / 'shooting' somehow when a round starts
        Text overlay on side / character?
            Scroll + fade "Cast" and "Shoot" across respective sides
    Visual distinction between modes
        Streamlined / Fast for shooter
        Beefy / Powerful for caster
Four player local support is pointless as the game is two player
    Being able to log in and out via profile system means 4 controllers isn't necessary
        Hotswap controller and have next player login to their own profile
Clash state needs to be more obvious
    Declare outcome if notable (a.k.a. non-draw)
        Coloured text (red tint for caster, blue tint for shooter)
        "Cast extension +10sec"
        "Clash strike"
    Show player lane and stance for 3.. 2.., hide it for 1..., then show again on Clash! when inputs are locked in
        Indicates that players can affect outcome with input
        Explicitly communicates outcome in the context of those inputs
        Adds to clash mindgame
            Indicates to players that they should be thinking about what their opponent will do
        How to indicate?
            UI next to character?
                Explicit
                Instantly readable
            Character animation?
                Readable if animation poses are distinct
                Adds element of style, cool poses
                More implicit
            UI and animation?
                Best of both worlds
                Can implement independently
Shooter feels like they have more agency despite having less of a toolset
    Currently they dictate the fight as the caster has no way to avoid damage
    Caster needs defense tools and ways to force the shooter to not strafe across them
        Shields
        Dodges
        Attacks
            More spatial control
    Shooter needs tools to counter this new tech

Card ideas:
Swap bullet pattern owner
    Have to hit the bullet spawner origin with a one-shot attack?
        Introduces concept of bullet origin
            May lead to further interesting gameplay
    Visual cue followed by owner changing to whoever activated the card

Personal Thoughts
=================
Both players need a complete toolset before the base concept can be considered proven
    Systems are working, but gameplay is lacking
Need to lean into characters as a design pattern
    Freedom to build a deck is core to the concept, but not necessarily approachable
    Game needs to be pick-up-and-play
    Start with fixed-parameter, wean players onto customization for higher-level play
    Quite possible that the characters would end up taking precedence over customization
        Players latch onto characters and their designs, personalities, etc.
        Deck building serves more of a strategic niche
        No reason they can't coexist, but characters will likely be at the fore whether I like it or not
Timer bar looks like a constraint, makes players think they can't cross it
    Elegant from the current UI standpoint but impedes gameplay
    What to replace it with?
        Radial clock?
            Would still get in the way
        Traditional countdown timer?
            Where to put it?
Caster is seen as the 'boss' role
    Inherently more powerful
    Counter to intention of neither side being inferior
    Has more options, does more damage, attacks are more impressive
    To push back against this, or lean into it?
        Think on it more as player toolkits are fleshed out
Round tempo needs serious work
    Single pattern into nothing but dodging is dull
    Limits opportunities for interesting interactions
    Symptomatic of limited player toolsets
Is the three-lane clash too much?
    Likely dependent on whether the UI indication works well
    Would two-lane work?
    How does it fit into the fighting game paradigm?
        Neutral into Player advantage
        2/3 chance of guaranteed momentum change
        1/3 chance of contested momentum change
        Two layers of yomi (lane and stance)
        Is this the right balance?
        Needs a good rhythm of round changes
            More approachable if you're not being Marvel 3'd to death by an experienced player